---
layout: portfolio
---

# Reflection

## The course

The course objectives for this course state that upon completion, a student
will be able to

- prepare, organize, and design a variety of effective documents for well-
  defined audiences;
- research, document, and present appropriate and valid data, conclusions, and
  recommendations for action in an applied situation; and
- function effectively as writers and editors in collaborative writing tasks.

Having now myself completed the course, I can confidently say that all of these
objectives have been met. The structure of the course was such that each
objective was realized in a multitude of different contexts. For example,
nearly all the assignments and readings for the course shed some light on the
preparation, organization, and design of documents. Early on, the concept of a
rhetorical context and well-defined audiences was introduced (the first
homework assignment dealt with evaluating and revising a memo which had
essentially no consideration for rhetorical context), which has since been
expanded upon through nearly every homework assignment and long-term project,
such that I now have a very well-elaborated and somewhat intuitive grasp of how
to guage a rhetorical situation and evaluate an audience, and how to act on
that evaluation. Research and documentation was presented later, initially in
the context of presenting some data about school athletic statistics, but was
then expanded upon by the last two projects, the proposal and the manual, both
of which entailed some amount of research and presentation of data in a
professional, ethical, and responsible manner. Moreover, the ability to
function in teams was baked into the structure of every assignment, each of
which had two phases: an initial draft, submitted to a group dropbox for peer
review, and a final draft, submitted to an individual dropbox for instructor
review. The peer reviews were all completed with the same people, which helped
significantly since, in real-world workplace situations, a peer review is
likely to be completed for a relatively fixed set of co-workers. Thus, this
class has modelled the peer review process much better than other classes in
which peer reviews are conducted by different groups each time or between
classes where the same people are unlikely to appear in each class.

## Projects

I have chosen the projects to include in this portfolio based on what they each
indicate about the new skills I have learned as part of this course, and the
old skills this course has helped me to hone. The Rhetorical Analysis Memo
showcases my ability, mostly new, to evaluate the rhetorical context of a
technical document from my own field, and helped me sharpen my ability to think
critically and at a deeper level about the context and subtext of a document.
The Extended Definition, on the other hand, allowed me to demonstrate my
ability to generate technical documents with an awareness of the rhetorical and
ethical context. This is a crucial skill and, while I think I was already
fairly proficient at technical writing before this class, having to analyze and
consider the context in which I am writing is not something I experienced very
much in other classes, and as such having to do it so much in this class has
helped me to develop a new skill as part of my technical writing toolkit. In a
similar vein, the Research Paper showcases the very same skill but for a
*different* context, that of an academic research proposal, which in itself
showcases my ability to operate in different rhetorical contexts, a skill which
the structure and content of this course has helped me to hone over the course
of the semester. Finally, the Manual demonstrates my ability to integrate all
of these skills into a single cohesive document. The personal projects I've
chosen to include demonstrate real-world application of my ability to
communicate, with appropriate technical *and* rhetorical context, coding work I
have performed.

## Career context

I intend to go into academic research. As such, the ability to communicate in a
technical manner is a crucial skill. However, as I've learned during this
course, there is much more to communicating technically than just being
technical. The communication aspect is a beast all its own, with important and
consequential factors to consider such as the rhetorical and ethical context,
style, and organization.

The skills I have learned in this course will make me better able to synthesize
the technical documents necessary for academic work. One of the projects in
this class was directly related to this field (the research paper proposal),
but the others all have something to consider in this vein as well.  Analyzing
and providing constructive criticism of the rhetorical situation of documents
written by others is a crucial part of the peer review process (which I also
gained experience with as part of the structure of this course), which is
itself an integral component of academic work. And considering that context for
one's own work is an important part of writing anything, but especially
technical writing, which is of course the bread and butter of academic work.
All of the skills I've learned through experience in each of the projects are
thus directly transferrable to academic work.

## Meta-analysis

The construction of this document was itself an exercise of all the
aforementioned skills I've learned and improved as part of this course. I had
to consider the context and audience, and adjust my writing and the overall
design of the site accordingly. For example, because the intended audience
consists mainly of those potentially interested in working with me in a
technical capacity, my language is more overtly technical than it might be in a
more casual medium. The overall design of the site is meant to be streamlined
and efficient, with minimal 'fluff', which communicates a great deal about my
overall style, both in writing and elsewhere. I also considered the intended
audience and rhetorical context when deciding where and how to place things
within the site, and used ideas from the course about appropriate presentation
of data and information to guide my layout of each page.
